sometimes people think that emotion and
art are sort of sideshows to human
intelligence the real essence of
intelligence is thinking logically if
there were two computers already smarter
than we are because so much better at
logical thinking than we are
it's actually things like being funny
being sexy or expressing a loving
sentiment maybe in a poem or in a
musical piece that's the cutting edge
agreement intelligence has to do with
the hierarchy of the neocortex and at
the low levels things may seem cold and
mechanical because we're our neocortex
can recognize very simple objects and
make very simple decisions at a high
level it's dealing with concepts like
the beauty of a poem by Emily Dickinson
or the ability to create a poem like
that and you can come back to creativity
I believe it's an exercise in in
metaphors and the neocortex is a
metaphor machine that's what it's good
at that's why humans are creative but we
have this very large hierarchy where we
have more and more abstract and complex
patterns you know builds on patterns
below it and the difference between
humans and say other primates is that we
have more of the neocortex we have this
big forehead then we could fit in the
frontal cortex and therefore have a
higher number of hierarchies of levels
of the hierarchy and that was the
enabling factor that that permitted the
evolution of language and technology and
art and science we are going to create
synthetic neocortex is based on the same
principles I'm actually working on that
and we've had hierarchical systems like
that I helped pioneer concept called
hierarchical hidden Markov models which
similar to what happens in the brain but
we only had a few levels the brain has a
very large number of levels and all the
way from recognizing edges of objects up
to you know she's beautiful or creating
a beautiful pain
work of music or scientific insight we
will create artificial neocortex's that
have a comparable number or a greater
number and I think the principle
application will actually be to extend
our own neocortex we have 300 million
pattern recognizers in the neocortex
part of my estimate that hierarchy we
build ourselves and each of these
pattern recognizers capable of
connecting itself to other neocortex is
to build this hierarchy we build that
hierarchy from the moment were born or
before that we're constantly building it
but we run up against this limitation of
300 million will be able to extend that
and think in the cloud you know if you
do anything interesting with this do a
search or a language translation or
bring up a map or ask it a question it
doesn't take place in the Box goes out
to the cloud we're going to put these
just really without gateways this is a
gateway to the cloud we're going to put
gateways to the cloud in our brains and
have more than 300 million just like the
cloud can give you a thousand or a
million computers for 1/10 of a second
you need another billion pattern
recognizers you'll be able to access
that in the cloud that's where we're
headed and we'll be more intelligent and
able to actually think in a greater
number of hierarchies if you think that
realize that the quantitative
improvement from primates to humans with
the big forehead to allow larger
neocortex was enabling factor for
language art music and science
what kind of qualitative leap can we
make with another quantitative increase
and that's that's I think where we're
headed
you